README.md, before:

# Data-Portfolio
A collection of my projects that tackle a variety of problems in different verticals and use data to uncover novel insights. These projects show off my skills in Python, SQL, Tableau, and Excel/Sheets to extract, explore, analyze, and vizualize data.

## Other links:

[Connect with me on LinkedIn!](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jason-robathan-7469b5136/)

[Check out my visualizations on Tableau public!](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jason1251#!/)

# Projects

## Company Attrition [(Project link)](https://github.com/Zaltaer/Data-Portfolio/blob/main/Company%20Attrition%20(Python)/Employee%20Attrition%20Python%20Project.ipynb)

Using a simulated HR dataset I explored the company data from a high-level using Python to determine the features that have been collected on their employees, then knowing this I formulated a hypothesis that financial factors, specifically PercentSalaryHike and MonthlyRate are most strongly related to employee retention. Afterwards an exploratory and statistical analysis was conducted to determine the most strongly contributing factors to employees leaving the company. This project was completed using Python and some libraries; numpy and Pandas for data cleaning and manipulation, statsmodels for statistical analysis, and seaborn for plotting.

## Mushroom Toxicity Classification [(Project link)](https://github.com/Zaltaer/Data-Portfolio/blob/main/Mushroom%20classification%20project/JasonRobathan%20-%20Capstone%20-%20Mushrooms.ipynb) [(Tableau viz link)](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jason1251/viz/MushroomToxicityClassification/Story1)

With the growing interest in mushrooms for recreational and culinary use there is an increased risk of people finding and consuming mushrooms that are poisonous or deadly. The purpose of this project was to determine if, using a dataset of different species of gilled mushrooms, the toxicity of a specific mushroom can be accurately predicted given its set of physical and environmental features. Further analysis was conducted to uncover which mushroom features are most commonly associated with a mushroom being poisonous or edible.

## Global Nut Production and Value [(Project link)](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jason1251/viz/Project2-Tableau-JasonR-Nuts/Dashboard1-Hypothesis)

Using United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization data and my expertise in Tableau I determined the top producing countries for pistachios, my favourite snack. From there I explored the countries which produce the most valuable pistachios. Further analysis was then done to determine the most valuable common nuts and how much of them are being produced by countries worldwide.

Commit message:

Added GameCompany project info to the README

README.md, after:

# Data-Portfolio
A collection of my projects that tackle a variety of problems in different verticals and use data to uncover novel insights. These projects show off my skills in Python, SQL, Tableau, and Excel/Sheets to extract, explore, analyze, and vizualize data.

## Other links:

[Connect with me on LinkedIn!](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jason-robathan-7469b5136/)

[Check out my visualizations on Tableau public!](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jason1251#!/)

# Projects

## Company Attrition [(Project link)](https://github.com/Zaltaer/Data-Portfolio/blob/main/Company%20Attrition%20(Python)/Employee%20Attrition%20Python%20Project.ipynb)

Using a simulated HR dataset I explored the company data from a high-level using Python to determine the features that have been collected on their employees, then knowing this I formulated a hypothesis that financial factors, specifically PercentSalaryHike and MonthlyRate are most strongly related to employee retention. Afterwards an exploratory and statistical analysis was conducted to determine the most strongly contributing factors to employees leaving the company. This project was completed using Python and some libraries; numpy and Pandas for data cleaning and manipulation, statsmodels for statistical analysis, and seaborn for plotting.

## GameCompany Sales and Retention metrics [(Project link)](https://github.com/Zaltaer/Data-Portfolio/tree/main/GameCompany%20-%20Sales%20%26%20Customer%20Retention)

I was tasked with analyzing player, match, purchase, and item data for a mobile game company. The company was celebrating it’s 1 year anniversary and stakeholders had questions related to the 30 day rolling retention of players over the past year and to the sales numbers for various subsets of players. Using my skills in SQL and Google Sheets I used database queries to extract, transform, and analyze the data, and I produced tables and graphs to illustrate my key findings and to make it easier for the company to make informed business decisions in the future.

## Mushroom Toxicity Classification [(Project link)](https://github.com/Zaltaer/Data-Portfolio/blob/main/Mushroom%20classification%20project/JasonRobathan%20-%20Capstone%20-%20Mushrooms.ipynb) [(Tableau viz link)](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jason1251/viz/MushroomToxicityClassification/Story1)

With the growing interest in mushrooms for recreational and culinary use there is an increased risk of people finding and consuming mushrooms that are poisonous or deadly. The purpose of this project was to determine if, using a dataset of different species of gilled mushrooms, the toxicity of a specific mushroom can be accurately predicted given its set of physical and environmental features. Further analysis was conducted to uncover which mushroom features are most commonly associated with a mushroom being poisonous or edible.

## Global Nut Production and Value [(Project link)](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jason1251/viz/Project2-Tableau-JasonR-Nuts/Dashboard1-Hypothesis)

Using United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization data and my expertise in Tableau I determined the top producing countries for pistachios, my favourite snack. From there I explored the countries which produce the most valuable pistachios. Further analysis was then done to determine the most valuable common nuts and how much of them are being produced by countries worldwide.
